<h1>Sign Language Translator Web App</h1>
<h2>Porpose:</h2>
<p align="justify">This web application will be presented as the senior project for my Computer Science major. The project goal is to create a web application that can translate sign language to the English language. This application will use the main concepts of web development and artificial intelligence for sign language and static-gesture recognition. It will benefit app users who don't know sign language and have the need to communicate through it daily.</p>
<h2>Description:</h2>
<p align="justify">According to federal resources, approximately 1,000,000 people in the United States are functionally deaf. All these people interact with thousands of people yearly, but a great majority of these thousands don't know sign language. This creates a great need for technology tools that can facilitate the communication and interaction between these two groups of people. A website or a mobile app that can provide sign language translation for this interaction becomes very important and can help thousands. That is my main goal with this project, and I would like to launch this as a web service for free, available online for everyone.</p>
<p align="justify">I have found that there are already a few mobile apps destined for this purpose, and also available online for the public. I won't be creating something new regarding sign language technology, but I will build a unique product with my ideas and design. I will produce something very user-friendly that almost anyone can use from all ages.</p> 
<p align="justify">I will be using the Heroku platform to host my project and make it accessible in a web browser via URL. It will be a free web service available to anyone with access to the internet and a device camera. The web app will access the camera, capture the current image, and input it to a machine-learning algorithm to recognize the gesture and output the results as plain English text to the user's screen. The user will then show the results to their friends and family for the best translation experience. The machine-learning algorithm implemented will need to be highly accurate, so it can generate the correct results. Of course, this will have to go through a delicate testing process over and over until it can work fully.</p>
<p align="justify">The project presentation will be scheduled for the last week of the semester through a very polished presentation.</p>
<h2>Interestingness:</h2>
<p align="justify">Gesture detection is a field of particular interest for me. AI is the future, and this specific area is already changing the world. You can see it in topics like face recognition and self-driving cars. Since I plan to enter the AI world, I will need to prove, to future employers, my interest and experience in this field. That's why this project and web app are very important to me. It will also help me with good job opportunities for the future. I am also very excited to learn what specific algorithms work better with gesture detection and the impact of machine learning in developing AI.</p>
